---
name: 'Severe Weather Forecast'
threatLevel: 'Moderate'
period: August 2, 5:00 - August 3, 5:00 UTC
date: '2025-07-24'
mapImage: '/maps/user/2025-08-02.jpg'
forecaster: 'Megastrovec'
---

## Elevated level: Northern Italy, Southern Slovenia, Western Croatia...

Significant storm activity will be felt around noon and will gradually increase in intensity. Moist air, full of abundant CAPE ( 1500-1800 ML CAPE ) will be pushed from the Adriatic Sea. Wind shear values will be around 15-18 m/s, which will be sufficient for the formation of linear units and a few stronger supercells are not excluded. The main danger will be strong gusts of wind and hail, or possible downbursts in the cores themselves, as shown by the ICON-DE model soundings. Storm activity should weaken during the night.

## Medium Level: Northern Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Austria, Hungary, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Poland...

In these areas, the weather will be influenced by a wavy frontal interface, with frequent storms expected in the late afternoon hours mainly in southern Austria and western Hungary. These storms will move quite briskly north to northeast, where they will strengthen and may form linear units or strong multicells or supercells. Wind shear will be locally up to 20m/s. Energy in the form of CAPE will move in from the south. The strongest storms should form in northern Austria from where they should head to western Slovakia and eastern Czech Republic. Here There is a risk of strong gusts of wind and torrential rainfall.