---
name: 'Severe Weather Forecast'
threatLevel: 'Enhanced'
period: May 24, 0:00 - May 25, 0:00 UTC
date: '2025-07-24'
mapImage: '/maps/user/2025-07-24-2.jpg'
forecaster: 'Estoniaweather'
---

## Overview

Multiple ENH risks have been issued for parts of South and West Estonia mainly for excessive convective rainfall.

A SLGT risk reaching from Southeast to Northwest Estonia has been issued mainly for excessive convective rainfall, intense lightning and strong wind gusts.

A MRGL risk expanding from Southeast to Northwest Estonia has been issued for the same risks, but with a lower probability.

A TSTM risks has been issued for the same risks but with a lower probability.

## Discussion

During the morning hours, CAPE values will begin to rise due to daytime heating, along with temperatures and dew points. By noon, temperatures in South Estonia are expected to exceed 25 degrees, with dew points reaching 20 degrees. Thunderstorms are likely to develop in Latvia before noon and in Estonia around noon. In the afternoon, thunderstorm activity will increase in South, Southeast, and West Estonia. During this time, CAPE values may reach over 1000 J/kg, possibly even 1400 J/kg. 

Given the wind shear conditions, these storms are expected to be organized. They could bring gusty winds of up to 15 m/s and small hail. The storms are anticipated to be slow-moving, raising the risk of flooding, which is why slight (SLGT) and enhanced (ENH) risks have been issued. Storm activity is expected to decrease during the evening and late-night hours. Many high-resolution models indicate rainfall totals around 40 mm.