---
name: 'Severe Weather Forecast'
threatLevel: 'Moderate'
period: July 21, 5:00 - July 22, 5:00 UTC
date: '2025-07-21'
mapImage: '/maps/user/2025-07-21.jpg'
forecaster: 'Megastrovec'
---

## Elevated risk: Eastern Czechia, Northern Austria, Southern Poland.

A prominent cold front will advance from the west. In front of it, very warm and humid air full of abundant CAPE will arrive from the south in the areas of Northern Austria and Eastern Bohemia. ( 1000-1700J/kg ML CAPE ) however, the dynamics will be lower.

The initial development area will most likely be Northern Austria, from where individual strong multicells will merge and could, according to some models, form a larger unit or MCS system. This should advance briskly to the NE, especially in the evening hours. The main dangerous phenomena will be strong wind gusts and hail. Storm activity should gradually cease at night and the risks should decrease.

## Elevated risk: Southern Switzerland, Northern Italy.

Relatively significant convection with more permanent rain in areas of Southern Switzerland should occur from the morning hours. Here, relatively high precipitation totals are expected - up to 80mm +. Subsequently, as the next hours progress, convection should also grow in Northern Italy, where local cores are likely, and most likely even stronger supercells, large hail and gusts of wind are likely. Very humid air will flow here from the Adriatic Sea, wind shear will be very good - combined CAPE-Shear values will reach up to 1000 m²/s².